59 Second Pitch Project Planning

Project Summary:
Problem: An optimal interface does not exist for startup entrepreneurs to get connected
with the advisors, investors, helping hands, etc. and for the investors, advisors, etc. to
quickly review multiple entrepreneurial ideas.

Value: If there were an easier way to connect potential investors/advisors and
entrepreneurs, both parties would benefit significantly. Investors could quickly identify
companies or ideas they want to invest in, while entrepreneurs could raise capital or get
help for their idea or small business. A one­sided Tinder­esque interface would bring
novelty to the long ongoing process of investors trying to find entrepreneurs to support

Solution: The objective is to build a platform that is mutually beneficial to entrepreneurs
and those interested in helping entrepreneurs in a novel way. The platform aims to
onboard users through LinkedIn with as little manual addition of information as possible.
It’s primary focus is to start a conversation between the entrepreneurs and those interested
in helping (investors, advisors, people with ideas). Should the conversation fail to come to
fruition, the platform should benefit entrepreneurs by giving them some sort of guidance as
to why their project/idea/startup is not attention worthy and benefit investors, advisors, etc.
because they can quickly view multiple profiles and move onto the next idea.

Project Organization
Team Members: Max Smith, Eric Thornton
Client: Matthew Harmer (Lehigh ‘07 Alum), Brian Davison
Both of us will interface with Matt and Professor Davison.
We have a weekly in person meeting with Professor Davison and we email him a progress report for the week.  We also have a video meeting with Matt once a week to discuss ideas and progress.


Business Use Cases:
Entrepreneurs:
1. Entrepreneurs onboard their ideas/startups/projects to the platform using a combination
of LinkedIn profile information and manually entered information about their
idea/startup/project. All of the information gathered will be stored in our application’s
database.
2a. Entrepreneurs will be alerted when an investor pairs with them. The entrepreneur will
receive the contact information of the investor as a result of the pairing and should then
contact the investor.
2b. At some interval, the entrepreneur will receive feedback as to why their
idea/project/startup isn’t garnering attention. The feedback will come directly from
investors that weren’t interested.Investors, Advisors, Helping Hands, etc.
Investors
1. Investors, advisors, helping hands, etc. sign in through LinkedIn and browse through
entrepreneur profiles in a simple, Tinder like fashion. Basic profile information will be
pulled from LinkedIn and stored in the application database.
2a. Investors decide whether they are interested in an idea/startup/project or not. If they are
interested they can choose to contact the entrepreneur via their profile information or pair
with the entrepreneur profile. The pairing will send the investor's profile information to the
entrepreneur, who will then reach out to the investor.
2b. If the investor is not interested in an entrepeneur's idea, the investor has the option to
provide feedback as to why they weren't interested.

Customer Requirements
1. The project will be a full web application with an interface and database.
2. 59 Second Pitch profile creation/modification forms will be prepopulated with data gathered through the LinkedIn API after their profile is authenticated.  Users will have the option to modify the prepopulated form data.
3. The interface will provide a simple, visually appealing way for investors to browse entrepreneur profiles.
4. “Pairing” data will persist via the database so investors are presented with new ideas
and companies to view.

Additional Requirements/Enhancements
1.Provide more targeted entrepreneur profiles to investors using an algorithm that matches
qualities such as alma mater, geographic area, industry, etc.
2. Investors would have a “favorites” tab to keep track of profiles rather than pair right away.

Good Ideas Out of Scope
1. Build a LinkedIn crawler to pull entrepreneurial idea/startup/project information from a
LinkedIn profile to lessen manual entry into the application. (May be against terms of service)
2. Perform data analysis to improve the pairing algorithm and make the algorithm more
specialized for each user.

Technical Requirements
App will be developed in Windows/ Mac OSX as a web application.
Developed using NetBeans.
GitHub will be used for source control.
Web app will be developed using HTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript, PHP.
MySQL database will be used.
Application and database will be hosted on an external server.
Application must have reasonable response times.
Component testing will be used to test individual feature functionality.
 
Project Management
Overview: Develop modules independently, clearly separating the server side and client side features.

Requirements: See above

Risk Areas:
Scalability-This is most likely outside the scope of the semester, but if it becomes a problem we will consider porting our code to a more scalable architecture.
LinkedIn-The terms of service for LinkedIn may prevent optimal use of our platform.  We will present our idea to LinkedIn after it is built.  Hopefully they will find it mutually beneficial and allow us more permissions/access
Security-Research will be done to ensure that the 59 second pitch profiles are securely stored

Interfaces:  We do not need to connect with an existing base of people.  We will onboard users through our profile creation screen





